Objects and Object Constructors: Add example of grouping functionality with objects (#27381)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: javascript/organizing_your_javascript_code/organizing_code_with_objects.md

There are multiple ways to define objects, but in many cases **object literal** syntax is used as follows:

```javascript
const myObject = {
  property: 'Value!',
  otherProperty: 77,
  "obnoxious property": function() {
    // do stuff!
  }
};
```

There are also 2 ways to get information out of an object: dot notation and bracket notation.

```javascript
// dot notation
myObject.property; // 'Value!'

// bracket notation
myObject["obnoxious property"]; // [Function]
```

Which method you use will depend on context. Dot notation is cleaner and is usually preferred, but there are plenty of circumstances when it is not possible to use it. For example, `myObject."obnoxious property"` won't work because that property is a string with a space in it. Likewise, you cannot use variables in dot notation:

```javascript
const variable = 'property';

myObject.variable; // this gives us 'undefined' because it's looking for a property named 'variable' in our object

> myObject[variable]; // this is equivalent to myObject['property'] and returns 'Value!'

Author: Done

```

> If you are feeling rusty on using objects, now might be a good time to go back and review the content in our [object basics lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-object-basics) from our JavaScript Basics course.

Author: Got it. This was part of the original lesson, but it's been removed in my last commit addressing the previous items. 

If that changes your mind, let me know and it can be un-done.

### Lesson overview

This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

- Using objects to organize data.
- Using objects to organize functionality.
- Object methods and the `this` keyword

> - Public and private interfaces

Author: Done

```javascript
// example one
const playerOneName = "tim";
const playerTwoName = "jenn";
const playerOneMarker = "X";
const playerTwoMarker = "O";

// example two
const playerOne = {
  name: "tim",
  marker: "X"
};

const playerTwo = {
  name: "jenn",
  marker: "O"
};
```

At first glance, the first doesn't seem so bad.. and it actually takes fewer lines to write than the example using objects, but the benefits of the second approach are huge! Grouping related data together into objects allows you to pass the data around easily. Let me demonstrate:

```javascript
function printName(player) {
  console.log(player.name);
}
```

This is something that you just could NOT do with the example one setup. Instead, every time you wanted to print a specific player's name, you would have to remember the correct variable name and then manually console.log it:

```javascript
console.log(playerOneName);
console.log(playerTwoName);
```

Again, this isn't *that* bad... but what if you *don't know* which player's name you want to print?

```javascript
function gameOver(winningPlayer){
  console.log("Congratulations!");
  console.log(winningPlayer.name + " is the winner!");
}

> ```

Author: This and the previous suggestion were part of the original lesson. There was an attempt made to keep this part as-is for the most part. I'll reread in a bit and see what I think.

> ```

Reviewer: Ah, I see. Since we're making these bigger changes, I think this can be addressed at the same time, as I'm not fully convinced by this specific example for the point being made.

> ```

Author: I did a bit of editing on this section, and want to hear your thoughts.

It reinforces the idea that objects may be more convenient than loads of separate arguments, like you suggested. I also provided a better example (IMO) of the `gameOver` function that truly shows how utilizing objects might be superior in such a situation.

I had to escape the \`\`\` symbols to prevent issues with formatting, sorry!
```
### Objects as a data structure

You've already been introduced to the basic use of a JavaScript object - storing related information *in one place* with key/value pairs. This is one of the simplest ways you can begin to organize your code! Take these examples from a 'tic tac toe' game:

\`\`\`javascript
// without objects
const playerOneName = "tim";
const playerTwoName = "jenn";
const playerOneMarker = "X";
const playerTwoMarker = "O";
let playerOneWins = 0;
let playerTwoWins = 0;

// with objects
const playerOne = {
  name: "tim",
  marker: "X",
  wins: 0
};

const playerTwo = {
  name: "jenn",
  marker: "O",
  wins: 0
};
\`\`\`

At first glance, the first doesn't seem so bad.. and it actually takes fewer lines to write than the example using objects, but the benefits of the second approach are huge!

Firstly, grouping related data together into objects allows you to pass *all* the data around easily. Calling a function such as `printPlayerInfo` below without objects would become increasingly cumbersome as the data you want to access increases:

\`\`\`javascript
// without objects
function printPlayerInfo(name, marker, wins) {
   console.log(`Name: ${name} | Marker: ${marker} | Wins: ${wins}`);
}

printPlayerInfo(playerOneName, playerOneMarker, playerOneWins)

// with objects
function printPlayerInfo(player) {
  console.log(`Name: ${player.name} | Marker: ${player.marker} | Wins: ${player.wins}`);
}

printPlayerInfo(playerOne)
\`\`\`

Secondly, grouping data into objects allows you update values in a cohesive way. Consider a `gameOver` function that increments the amount of wins for a player by one point when they win:

\`\`\`javascript
// without objects
function gameOver(winningPlayerName) {
  // figure out which player has the name passed in:
  if(winningPlayerName === playerOneName) {
    // increment the first player's score if the name matches the first player
    playerOneWins++
  } else if (winningPlayerName === playerTwoName) {
    // increment the second player's score if the name matches the first player
    playerTwoWins++
  }
}

gameOver("tim")

// with objects
function gameOver(winningPlayer) {
  winningPlayer.wins++
}

gameOver(playerOne)
\`\`\`

This example may be a little contrived, but notice how the example using an object doesn't need to know about any other players or variables, it can simply increment the score of the player object it's given! This is great, because it means you won't need to update the function if you add more players to your game - something that you just could NOT do without objects!

Or, what if we aren't making a 2 player game, but something more complicated such as an online shopping site with a large inventory? In that case, using objects to keep track of each particular item's name, price, description and other things is the only way to go. You will continue to use and see objects used in this way throughout the curriculum.
```

> ```

Reviewer: Will get to this in due course. Github markdown allows quadruple backticks for code blocks containing triple backtick blocks, so you won't need to escape them.

> ```

Author: Small updates made above, just to let you know.

Let's take an example of some *thing*- we'll choose a lightbulb. A lightbulb can have a color, and it can be in either an 'on' state, or an 'off' state. These might be expressed as properties of a lightbulb object:

```javascript
const lightbulb = {
  lightColor: 'fluorescent white',  // this lightbulb is white,
  lit: false                        // and is currently 'off'
}
```

You may want to have the ability to switch a lightbulb from it's unlit state to it's lit state, or vice-versa. To do that, you might add a *method*.

The easiest way to get started creating methods to interact with your objects might be combining Object Literal syntax with JavaScript's `this` keyword. The `this` keyword is used to refer to the object a particular method is called from.

The following is an example of using the `this` keyword to add two methods to our object, `switchOn`, and `switchOff`:

```javascript
const lightbulb = {
  lightColor: 'fluorescent white',
  lit: false,

  // shorthand syntax for adding methods to objects
  switchOn() {
    this.lit = true
  },
  switchOff() {
    this.lit = false
  }
}

lightbulb.switchOn() 
lightbulb.lit // true - we switched it on

> ```

Author: I will reread the lesson in a bit, and see if I don't think it's clear when I touch on interfaces. If not, then I'll find a way to shove a note here, or near the area where I address interfaces.

These methods use the `this` keyword to refer to the object they get called from (`lightbulb`). The `this` keyword can be used to access and modify properties of an object in exactly the same way you would for any other variable that points to an object.

Feel free to copy this code in the console and experiment with it! If you're inclined, perhaps you could create a method to change the color of the light, as if it's one of those fancy RGB LEDs those gamer nerds and keyboard enthusiasts seem to like so much.

Moving past physical items, we could also try to describe something a little bit more abstract like a game as an object. Since we've already explored Rock Paper Scissors in Foundations, let's use that as an example.

A rock paper scissors game might involve a couple basic things:

- Players' scores
- The ability to play a round (and playing a round should update a player's score)

And might also include a couple nice-to-haves

- The ability to determine the current winning player
- The ability to restart the game

> So, at it's most basic, an object that represents the game might look something like this (assuming we're playing against a computer player):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, at its most basic, an object that represents the game might look something like this (assuming we're playing against a computer player):
```

    }
    
    // get the computer's choice
    const computerChoice = options[Math.floor(Math.random() * 3)]

    // determine the winner, apply points if necessary, and return who won
    if(playerChoice.toLowerCase() === computerChoice) {
      return "tie"
    } else if(
      (playerChoice === 'rock' && computerChoice === 'scissors') ||
      (playerChoice === 'paper' && computerChoice === 'rock') ||
      (playerChoice === 'scissors' && computerChoice === 'paper')
    ) {
      this.playerScore++
      return "player"
    } else {
      this.computerScore++
      return 'computer'
    }
  },
  getWinningPlayer() {
    if(this.playerScore === this.computerScore) {
      return 'tie'
    } else if (this.playerScore > this.computerScore) {
      return 'player'
    } else {
      return 'computer'
    }
  },
  reset() {
    this.playerScore = 0;
    this.computerScore = 0;
  }
}

rps.playRound('rock') // returns 'player' if we win...
rps.playerScore       // ...and our score would have increased

// We also have the ability to check the winner and reset the game at any time
rps.getWinningPlayer() // 'player', if we won above round
rps.reset()

> ```

Reviewer: Probably more of a nit but I'm not sure we really need such a big code block here? I'm just thinking more about how such a big code block can have the psychological effect of "oh god" (like a red herring) when the code within the methods doesn't actually matter for the lesson's purpose. We could replace the methods contents with a short comment. Those, along with the method names as well as the "driver script" underneath, I believe should be sufficient to get the point across (while allowing learners to focus more on that point than trying to parse the RPS code you wrote).

Author: I do like the full, working code example personally, but this can happen.

I'm thinking I can just replace the implementation with pseudo-code as a middle ground:
```js
const rps = {
  playerScore: 0,
  computerScore: 0,
  playRound(playerChoice) {
    /* 
      1. if an invalid choice is chosen, throw an error
      
      2. get the computer's choice
      
      3. determine the winner
        - apply points if necessary
        - return who won ('player', 'computer', or 'tie')
     */
  },
  getWinningPlayer() {
    // return the player with the most points ('player', 'computer', or 'tie')
  },
  reset() {
    // reset both player's scores to 0
  }
}

rps.playRound('rock') // returns 'player' if we win...
rps.playerScore       // ...and our score would have increased

// We also have the ability to check the winner and reset the game at any time
rps.getWinningPlayer() // 'player', if we won above round
rps.reset()
```

It might be a nice little exercise to suggest to learners that they can try and fill in the code and get it working if they want.

My concerns with doing it this way is that it makes it hard to extract particular parts of the `playRound` function to exemplify how they can be pulled into private methods.

A workaround I can think of is making the filling in of the above pseudocode an exercise learners are directed to do, then approach private properties. That way they can learn how to break their functions down in an active way, while still having a nice interface on their object others are meant to use.

I'm not sure how great of an idea that is- it relies on the learner working within the framework provided, but I believe I can make it work. It helps a lot that I decided to use an example learners should be very familiar with.

Reviewer: The thing I'm concerned with is the scope of the lesson given where the learner will be, and putting the right weight on the different concepts the lesson wants to explore.

When it comes to the concept of private properties, I'm not convinced this lesson needs to be the one where we really dive into that concept and demonstrating its uses. Privacy already gets explored a lot more in the factory functions lesson, and revisited in the classes lesson (and from my observations, by that point, many learners seem to have grasped the concept of private properties and their use).

So my feeling is that this lesson probably won't need much more diving into private properties than an outline of the idea and that we'll explore more ways to implement and make use of privacy later on.

Therefore when it comes to this RPS example, I don't think we actually need the functions' internal code to make a sufficient point. Including that code I feel puts far too much weight on this part of the lesson which could take weight away from the other parts that may actually need more of that weight.

An example of how privacy could tie into the RPS code with the truncated version is just outlining how you may want to extract the logic for getting human and computer choices from `playRound` to their own functions (we don't need to show the full code for that since that the idea should be intuitive by now). Then since those choice functions are only called internally by `playRound` and not externally, they can be treated as "private". We won't need to show implementation details of the actual functions to demonstrate that idea, and to me it also puts most of the weight for this section on that idea instead of the actual RPS code itself.

Author: > Privacy already gets explored a lot more in the factory functions lesson, and revisited in the classes lesson (and from my observations, by that point, many learners seem to have grasped the concept of private properties and their use).

I just re-read this lesson, and realized it goes into this more in-depth than I'd thought, so I won't argue much about that.

I see your point about a full code examples, and I've just made some changes to reflect that. I think we're on a similar page on how it can be rectified.

I really wanted to include private properties/methods in this lesson, since it is a overarching concept that will come up regardless of one's object-creation method, so it feels a little hard for me to let go of. 

Let me know what you think of the most recent changes, we can continue discussing it here.

You may be looking at this code and thinking that you personally prefer to split your code between more functions than you see here, but also recognize that those functions may not really be a useful interaction point for anyone using your object.

> But, there is no rule saying that you can't add those functions to your object as well! A common convention is to prefix methods and properties that you don't intend other people to use with an underscore (`_`). This convention conveys to others that "These things are meant to be used internally by this object, please interact with the other available methods and properties on this object's interface instead".

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Instead of using underscore to prefix private properties (which is not enforced at runtime at all), imo it'd be better to teach learners about private properties using `#`property syntax

thoughts?

Author: ☝️ 

It's also not an uncommon thing to see in the wild. I would bet material TOP points to even has a few examples of the pattern being used already. IMO this is a decent way to discuss the basic concept without introducing anything overtly fancy- which is kinda the goal of using object literals in the first place. The concepts here can carry over from here into every other lesson on object creation. 

A lesson note could be added to _stress_ the fact it's just a common convention and is not enforced. I wouldn't be opposed to it, but I personally think that's already pretty clear.

> But, there is no rule saying that you can't add those functions to your object as well! A common convention is to prefix methods and properties that you don't intend other people to use with an underscore (`_`). This convention conveys to others that "These things are meant to be used internally by this object, please interact with the other available methods and properties on this object's interface instead".

Reviewer: My thoughts on the `_` bit - I think there's value in introducing the concept of private properties but I don't feel like we need to dive into it at all. 

My suggestion would be to start by introducing the concept of private properties first (as opposed to after the code example), mention that we'll expand on more ways to implement private properties later, then mention that object literal syntax can't implement truly private properties but that the `_` convention existed as "pseudo-private". Again, focus on how we'll go into more ways to implement actually private properties later.

The code example for `_` conventions can also do with the same treatment as the above - I don't think we need a full working RPS example as that might be a red herring taking away from the real concept to learn, and putting effort more into parsing the RPS code.

That'll also significantly shorten this section, which I believe will have a similar effect on focus on concepts throughout the lesson, as it currently feels like a section much larger than it needs to be relative to everything else.

Author: > My suggestion would be to start by introducing the concept of private properties first (as opposed to after the code example), mention that we'll expand on more ways to implement private properties later...

I think we can do this with very slight changes, what do you think?
```markdown
### Private Properties

You may be looking at this code and thinking that you personally prefer to split your code between more functions than you see here, but also recognize that those functions may not really be a useful interaction point for anyone using your object.

But, there is no rule saying that you can't add those functions to your object as well! A common convention is to prefix methods and properties that you don't intend other people to use with an underscore (`_`). This convention conveys to others that "These things are meant to be used internally by this object, please interact with the other available methods and properties on this object's interface instead"

Another name for properties like this might be **private properties**/**private methods**, and even though object literal syntax doesn't provide a way to truly prevent people from using them, you will later learn about other methods of creating objects that *can*. 

Private properties/methods aren't strictly required, but they can help make the intended use of the object more understandable, and when used thoughtfully, even protect certain properties (like the player's scores) from being modified in ways that you may not have intended. Back off, cheaters!

`code example, with pseudo-coded method implementations`
```

> ... then mention that object literal syntax can't implement truly private properties but that the _ convention existed as "pseudo-private".

I'll also add a lesson note, or some paragraph in the middle there to draw attention to this. 

Note that I think in order for this section to be effective, we need to decide on how to proceed with the previous comment about the fully working RPS code.

Reviewer: Continuing/combining in https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/pull/27381#discussion_r1807309806

The methods and properties you *do* intend for others to use on your objects might be considered your object's **public interface**, or **public properties**/**public methods**. Having a good, well thought out interface on your objects is important- not only because it makes your object pleasant to use by you and others, but also to keep objects flexible and extensible in the future.

This idea of grouping related functionality within an object is *extremely powerful*, and can often result in more organized, understandable code.

Furthermore, with the various object creation methods you'll learn throughout this section of the curriculum, you'll be able to easily duplicate and reuse objects like these! Imagine you have a website where users can create and play *multiple* rock-paper-scissor games at once. Managing the data and interacting with each of those games would be no sweat with objects!

> ### Objects As Machines

Reviewer: Style guide requires sentence case for headings
```suggestion
### Objects as machines
```

- A "Debt" object that keeps track of a debt owed, how much has been paid, and how much of the debt is remaining.

You may have trouble figuring out what kinds of properties and methods one of these objects might contain at first. One way you might conceptualize these objects might be to imagine them as little 'machines' you're making out of code.

The properties of the machine could be thought of displays that might show information such as:

- A list of the items you've collected, the total amount of items you can carry, and how much you're currently carrying
- A list of functions that are listening for an event
- The person who owes a particular debt, and the original amount owed.

The methods of your machine might be akin to buttons and such that make the machinde *do* a specific thing, such as:

- Remove an item you own from a list, add a new item, upgrade an item, craft a new item
- Fire all the functions that are listening to a 'click' event, or add a new function to listen to the 'click' event
- Pay an amount of money towards a debt, and determine how much more money is owed on a debt

> Again, objects can be used to represent almost anything you can think of, the limit is your imagination!

Reviewer: I like this section. Two suggestions:

1. How about replacing the "listen for events" example with one that's a little more resemblant of a display controller, like what one will likely use in Tic Tac Toe? I think it might be nice to drop a little early hint here than might also help people connect the dots if they revisit this lesson when doing Tic Tac Toe. "Display controller" often ends up being something that's conceptually tricky to get round.
2. I'd like for this section to make clear that these concepts will become easier to identify and design through experience, including the use of further concepts/techniques introduced in later lessons. For example, the "you may have trouble..." paragraph:
   > You may have trouble figuring out what kinds of properties and methods one of these objects might contain at first. These sorts of things come with experience and concepts taught in later lessons can help as well. One way you might conceptualize these objects might be to imagine them as little 'machines' you're making out of code.

Author: > How about replacing the "listen for events" example with one that's a little more resemblant of a display controller, like what one will likely use in Tic Tac Toe? I think it might be nice to drop a little early hint here than might also help people connect the dots if they revisit this lesson when doing Tic Tac Toe. "Display controller" often ends up being something that's conceptually tricky to get round.

I'm assuming you mean something like the ScreenController in Building a House From the Inside out. That seems tricky, and may not perfectly fit in here since in that article it's not something that's implemented as an object, and I think we've been doing a decent job of preventing learners from trying. Also, if they were to try to implement that as an object- I suspect it'd look a lot like the PubSub pattern- which this definitely covers. 

If you meant something more like a "view" in the MVC pattern, I'd agree that a lot of learners struggle to create a simple object that just contains some nice DOM utility functions that perform specific actions- divorced from events. We could add something like that in here, but since a module like that might only contain simple functions, and not particularly complex behavior, it's a weird spot to put it. Not opposed to it though to prime learners to think about it. 

> I'd like for this section to make clear that these concepts will become easier to identify and design through experience, including the use of further concepts/techniques introduced in later lessons. For example, the "you may have trouble..." paragraph:
> > You may have trouble figuring out what kinds of properties and methods one of these objects might contain at first. These sorts of things come with experience and concepts taught in later lessons can help as well. One way you might conceptualize these objects might be to imagine them as little 'machines' you're making out of code.

I like that idea a lot. I'll get it in there.

Reviewer: That's fair on the first point - not a vital change of course :)

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

> 1. Check out this [video explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cwChC4BQF0Q) on the `this` keyword from DevSage that gives a different perspective on how its context changes, as well as scenarios in which `this` behaves unexpectedly. Don't worry too much about the part on constructor functions at the end, as they will be covered in another lesson.

Reviewer: Accessible link text label
```suggestion
1. Check out [DevSage's video explanation of the `this` keyword](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cwChC4BQF0Q) that gives a different perspective on how its context changes, as well as scenarios in which `this` behaves unexpectedly. Don't worry too much about the part on constructor functions at the end, as they will be covered in another lesson.
```

1. Try modelling the behavior of a piggy bank as an object:
   1. You should be able to interact with the object via a method that allows you to deposit coins.
      - For now, use a string to represent the name of a coin. Ex. `piggyBank.deposit('penny')`
      - You should keep the coin around by storing it in some kind of list.
   1. The object should also have a property or method that tells you how much money you have saved as a number.
      - For simplicity, using only the smallest subunit of a given currency is acceptable.
      - Ex: If there are 5 US quarters in the piggy bank, then the number `125` for '125 cents' is acceptable.
   1. You should be able to read the list of all coins that are currently in the piggy bank.
   1. Add a method to the piggy bank object to remove a specific type of coin from the piggy bank if it's available.
      - Ensure you can still get the correct savings after removing coins!
   1. Lastly, create a way to remove all the money from the jar and start fresh.

> 1. Try to model something else as an object! Try to keep it simple. When you're done, consider showing off what you've created on [The Odin Project's Discord Channel](https://discord.com/invite/fbFCkYabZB), and tell us how you're feeling about the idea of organizing code into objects.

Reviewer: I'm not quite so sure this is necessary as a assignment step but neither do I feel particularly strongly about it. Below is tweaked wording for the link and also using the appropriate href for the creations showcase channel. The server main invite link has been linked many times before this lesson already so I feel it's fine to link straight to a channel here.

```suggestion
1. Try to model something else as an object! Try to keep it simple. When you're done, consider showing off what you've created in [our Discord server's "Creations Showcase" channel](https://discord.com/channels/505093832157691914/1013800461465309214).
```

Author: I noticed there was something like this in a couple lessons, and there was also discussion about discord engagement for a little bit after a fireside chat type thing. 

I believe I asked about it somewhere, and thoughts on it were inconclusive. I don't feel particularly strongly about it either, but it seems a little fun. If you're erring on the side of leaving it out, tell me and it'll get wiped.

Reviewer: I'm probably erring on the side of "leave it out" for now. Again, I don't feel too strongly about its inclusion/exclusion.

   Additionally, adding an unexpected value to this list by modifying it directly could cause errors within your piggy bank methods. Let's try to ensure that doesn't happen!
   - Indicate that the list of coins the piggy bank uses is a **private property** of the object.
   - Create a **public method** that gives the user a *copy* of the list that they can manipulate to their hearts content without breaking the piggy bank object.

1. Try creating a couple 'coin' objects to deposit into the piggy bank instead of using a string.
   - A coin object might contain properties like the name of the coin, and it's value (preferably in the same unit the piggy bank measures it's savings).
   - Make sure that your piggy bank object is still able to keep track of savings and remove coins correctly after this change!
   - After making this change, consider how you are calculating savings for the piggy bank compared to before. Do you prefer working with the objects or the strings more?

>    - Consider how the piggy bank might check for a correct string vs checking for an object with the correct properties when depositing. Which seems easier? Does one seem more flexible than the other?

Reviewer: I'm not particularly convinced by the value of this extra credit section, especially one that contains so much. Personally, I think the main assignment is absolutely sufficient here. If you feel that anything in the extra credit cannot go, then it ought to be in the main assignment instead of extra credit anyway.

Author: Yeah, I felt the main assignment covered "Creating an object with contained functionality well", but it didn't demonstrate things like:
1. The usefulness of grouping data in an object, and passing that around to other functions/methods
2. Using private method or properties as a way to prevent "bad state" in objects. 

I felt like the piggy bank object encapsulated the main point of this lesson, but these extra-credit things could help solidify the importance of the other things touched upon in this lesson. 

I agree the assignment section is unusually long, for an assignment section. The piggy-bank related stuff *could* potentially be a small project following this lesson.

Author: I'm afraid I'm running into a problem here where it feels *really* hard let go of a portion of the assignment that gets learners hands-on with private properties.

While the lesson on Factory Functions gives a general overview of how to implement "private variables" with factory functions through closures, I feel it's much more focused on conveying the idea of closures and providing a way to create some form of inheritance with factory functions.

In this lesson I try to create more of a holistic introduction to the concept, so it can be carried over easily to any of the other object creation methods that are covered.

The main article covers using private properties/methods as a way to organize code within an object that doesn't need to be public, and last part of the assignment section tries to tackle instances where private properties can help prevent "bad state". 

I did take a stab at rewriting the assignment section to remove the "Extra Credit" section. I landed at a version that splits creating a model of the piggy bank into three parts, with each part corresponding to a main idea in this lesson.

The first part includes creating a couple very simple coin objects, as practice for grouping related data together:
```
1. Try modelling the behavior of a piggy bank as an object
   1. Create a few 'coin' objects, and assign them to variables to deposit in the piggy bank later.
     - A coin object should contain a `name` property, containing the name of the coin, and a `value` property that give's it's value as a number.
     - For simplicity, using only the smallest subunit of a given currency is acceptable to convey the coin's value.

          Ex: One US quarter may have a value of `25` to represent '25 cents'.
```

The second focuses on the actual piggy bank, and organizing data and functionality together:
```
   1. Now, create the piggy bank object:
      1. There should be a public `savings` or `getSavings` property or method that tells users of the piggy bank how much money it contains, as a number. This should give the total value of all the coins currently stored in the piggy bank.
      1. You should be able to interact with your piggy bank object through a public `deposit` method, allowing you to deposit coins. This function should accept one of your coin objects as an argument, and keep it around by storing it in some kind of list.
        - Ensure the piggy bank's savings is updated when you add a coin!
      1. You should be able to get a list of all the coins that are currently stored in the piggy bank through a `coins`/`getCoins` property or method.
      1. Add a `withdraw` method that allows you to remove a specific type of coin from the piggy bank if it's available.
        - Ensure the piggy bank's savings shows the correct value after removing coins!
        - This method should return the coin object that it removes from the list.
      1. Create a method to remove all the money from the jar and start fresh.
      1. You should now have a functional piggy bank object that you can play with in the browser console!
```

And the third provides practice for potentially common scenarios where you might want to use private methods/properties to avoid bad state:
```
   1. Lastly, make sure the data on your piggy bank object can't be interacted with in ways you didn't intend! This is an area where private properties/methods come in handy.
      1. You should have exposed the list that the piggy bank uses to track coins through a public property or method. Depending on how you implemented this functionality, modifying this list *from the outside*, without using something like a `deposit` or `withdraw` method could result in coins being added or removed without the savings being updated!

         Additionally, adding an unexpected value to this list by modifying it directly could cause errors within your piggy bank methods (what if somebody adds something that's not a coin object?). Let's try to ensure that doesn't happen!

          - Indicate that the list of coins the piggy bank uses is a **private property** of the object.
          - Create a **public method** that gives the user a *copy* of the list and it's objects that they can manipulate to their hearts content without breaking the piggy bank object.          - If a user of your object tries to deposit something that doesn't appear to be a coin with the `deposit` method, throw an error!

      1. Did you use a public property to convey the savings to the consumer of your object? That property can probably be modified willy-nilly to show the wrong value! There are a couple ways you could fix this:
         - Use a public method that calculates the savings every time it's called
         - Another option is to create a private property tracking the savings, and use a public method to return it's value.
```

I think ultimately this becomes a part of the bigger conversation we're having about how much focus private properties/methods should have at this point. I would personally lean towards approaching the topic earlier, then explaining how one might implement them with each object creation method. 

If it's decided it's best to not explore them earlier than we already are, I still feel like there's probably improvements to how we approach the concept later. Maybe it's just my experience and bias, but this feels like a concept that's people grasp understanding of more through discussion in the server than through the lessons themselves.

</div>

### Knowledge check

The following questions are an opportunity to reflect on key topics in this lesson. If you can't answer a question, click on it to review the material, but keep in mind you are not expected to memorize or master this knowledge.

- [What are two ways you can use objects to organize code?](#objects-as-a-data-structure)
- [What is a 'method'?](#objects-as-a-design-pattern)
- [What is the `this` keyword used for?](#objects-as-a-design-pattern)
- [What methods should exist as part of an object's public interface?](#objects-as-a-design-pattern)

### Additional resources

This section contains helpful links to related content. It isn't required, so consider it supplemental.

> - [The Principles of Object-Oriented JavaScript](https://www.amazon.com/Principles-Object-Oriented-JavaScript-Nicholas-Zakas/dp/1593275404) book by
> Nicholas C. Zakas is really great to understand OOP in JavaScript, which explains concepts in-depth, which explores JavaScript's object-oriented nature, revealing the language's unique implementation of inheritance and other key characteristics, it's not free but it's very valuable.

Reviewer: No manual line break needed.
I'm not 100% sure this book would be an additional resource in scope. Related? Yes. Valuable for some people to dig into now before having had experience with many other things? I feel it's still out of scope and a rabbit hole for many people. Personally, I wouldn't include this resource.
```suggestion
- [The Principles of Object-Oriented JavaScript](https://www.amazon.com/Principles-Object-Oriented-JavaScript-Nicholas-Zakas/dp/1593275404) book by Nicholas C. Zakas is really great to understand OOP in JavaScript, which explains concepts in-depth, which explores JavaScript's object-oriented nature, revealing the language's unique implementation of inheritance and other key characteristics, it's not free but it's very valuable.
```

Author: I believe this was in the original Objects and Object Constructors lesson at some point, but may have been removed.

It might be worth tucking it into the Object Constructors lesson here. I gave it a *very* quick read a while ago after doing the JS course, and while I didn't find it valuable personally, I think for the learner going over this stuff for the first time it could be appropriate and give some insight. It may be easier for them to make sense of now too, after adding the "Organizing Code with Objects" lesson.

Since it's not particularly updated, it uses object constructors primarily to explore classical inheritance a little bit (but not particularly in-depth). It may be worth noting that it's a bit dated, if it's to be added back.

Let me know what you think about moving it back into the Object Constructors lesson, or just wiping it out all together.

Reviewer: The thing with linking books is that they often go way further than they need to for this part of the curriculum, and are places for huge rabbit holes. More often than not, only certain parts of the book are relevant. At this point in the curriculum, especially for those in the JS pathway, people will still be fairly new to many of these concepts. Books tend to have more value for those who have a little more experience where exploring out of scope provides more benefits than rabbit hole opportunities.

Relevant discord message: https://discord.com/channels/505093832157691914/505093832157691916/1296589566530293793

Also note that the team have been considering rethinking our approach to additional resources anyway, as many lessons have ARs that go way out of scope than what is appropriate for the lesson and curriculum position, and/or have way too many ARs that are just "things people find helpful" (big hole for anyone to throw any old resource in because everyone will find a different wording nicer than others). So I'm also coming at this from a more cautious and smaller-scoped angle.
